Why was it difficult to uphold
God’s moral standards at school?
I remember that in high school
it was complicated
because my classmates made fun of me.
They often said I acted holier-than-thou
and other similar insults
because I didn’t go to nightclubs,
I didn’t curse, I didn’t smoke.
It was unbearable because they
often tried to push me to the limit.
I had a one-hour bus ride
to get to high school,
and I wanted the bus to make a U-turn
and avoid going to high school.
I had all the time to think
of what could happen to me
and what they could say to me,
and I admit that I sometimes felt alone.
The environment at school
often exposed me to immorality.
For example, girls would wear short skirts.
I received instant messages
from people I had never met before.
They would send me photos,
a phone number, or invitations
that I could have just simply accepted.
So I could have easily committed
sexual immorality.
Sometimes I felt like
I was missing out on something important
when I heard my classmates
talking about what they were doing
on their evenings and weekends
and about drinking alcohol
and new drugs they were trying
or girls they had slept with.
I started to become curious.
What did you do to strengthen your faith?
During family worship with my parents,
we studied the example of Daniel.
Far from his family
among people that didn’t serve Jehovah,
he succeeded in remaining faithful,
and I wanted to do the same.
To strengthen my faith,
I started reading the Bible.
I had to take the metro to get to school,
so every morning I took the opportunity
to read a few verses.
I thought about the verses I had read.
By praying to Jehovah,
having a kind of
constant conversation with him,
Jehovah would put me in a little bubble.
I started feeling comfortable inside,
and I was no longer
under the bad influence of others.
And the fact that I prayed more
also made me feel closer to Jehovah.
It was a bit like Psalm 63:7,
which describes how Jehovah shelters us
under his immense wings.
Well, that’s exactly how I felt.
Prayer allowed me to face any temptation.
Why do you believe
that Jehovah’s standards are beneficial?
I closely observed
the young ones in the world,
and I realized that they are suffering
from the standards they follow.
I closely stick to the moral standards
that Jehovah has given me.
I’m aware that they are there for my benefit,
because with the experiences
I’ve had in school,
I’ve observed the painful consequences
that my classmates have suffered.
Some got into trouble with the law
or got sick.
They’ve had health problems
caused by their lifestyle.
A girl in school
did something immoral with a boy,
and it started circulating around the school.
Because of that,
the girl didn’t come to school anymore,
and she started having suicidal thoughts.
I understood that Jehovah protects us
with his principles, his standards.
And if I had compromised
even once with his standards,
I would have regretted it sooner or later.
And for me,
there is nothing worse than regret.
I’m 100 percent sure that Jehovah gave me
these moral principles for my own good
so that I could be morally clean.
He also helps me to be positive.
For example, he helped me
to see my classmates
as potential disciples,
and we were able to have conversations
about the Bible together.
I am really convinced
that Jehovah’s standards are good for me.
Being one of Jehovah’s Witnesses
is the best life possible.